These writers have just booted and don't have any configuration on them.
As an example here you can see that writer one is asking us to enter the initial configuration dialog
and I'm going to say no because I don't want to do that
this writer is a virtual IOW rod a running advanced Enterprise Services version 15 dot six so these
writers are essentially Iris v writers.
So first thing I'll do is configure a hostname note please that if I try and enable SPF
or rather SPF I'm told that my Peavey six writing is not enabled.
We need to do some initial configuration on these routers before we can enable SPF.
Version 3 and one of the obvious things we need to do is configure IP addresses so on the loop back
I'm going to configure an IP address like this.
And on gigabit 00 I'll configure an IP address as per the diagram such as this and no shut to the interface.
So do show IP not IP version 4 here.
Interface brief what you'll note shows that no IP addresses have been configured on this router.
In other words no IP version 4 addresses have been configured but show IP vs 6 interface brief shows
us that this interface gigabit 0 0 has this IP address as well as a link local IP address configured
and the same is true for the loop back address again IP vs 6 Rada or SPF of 1 shows us that IP vs 6
writing is not enabled on the router so the first thing we need to do is enable IP vs 6 unit cost routing.
Now we can configure a writing protocol and in this example we have EAI GOP network mobility or SPF
and rep but we'll configure the SPF with a process I.D. or SPF version 3 is once again very similar
to SPF version too.
So the process I.D. is a locally significant number on the broader note this message however is P.F.
version 3.
IP vs 6 could not pick a router I.D. Please configure it manually.
So that's because we didn't configure an IP version for address so we now within the OS P.F. process
need to configure a router I.D. of a 32 but number so to show run pipe begin SPF.
This is the OSP version 3 configuration that we've done on the router
now at this point show IP vs 6 or SPF.
Interface brief shows that no interfaces have been added to the OSP version 3 process.
We need to go to each individual interface and type IP vs 6 0 SPF.
The process no in our example.
That's process idea 1.
We need to specify the area and the area that we're putting the interface into.
So in this example the loop back interface has been put into a SPF so the command show IP vs 6 0 SPF
interface brief.
Now shows us that the loop back interface has been added to the 0 SPF process.
Process ideas one area is 1 to form neighbor relationships with other routers and in this case write
a two will need to enable SPF on gigabit 0 0 on Route 1 So IP v 6 0 SPF process ideas one area that
will configure is 1.
So now show IP vs 6 0 SPF interface brief shows that both of those interfaces are added to a SPF.
A lot of the commands that you've used previously still apply here.
So show IP vs 6 protocols instead of show IP protocols.
Shows us that we are running 0 SPF with this rather idea with these interfaces added to 0 SPF and a
single normal area.
Other protocols also listed here like a neighbor discovery.
Show IP vs 6 0 SPF neighbor.
No neighbors at the moment show IP vs 6 round
so there's the command we have no 0 SPF rotten the running table because we haven't formed a neighbor
relationship with any other Rada show IP the 6 0 SPF.
Lot of options here but let's choose
database.
We have a very similar database output to what we have in 0 SPF version 2 or in other words IP version
4.
So as an example we have one router in the database at the moment.
There are other LSA types which we won't talk about as part of the CCMA.
But notice LSA type 8 is also listed in the database show IP vs 6 0 SPF enter so there's the command.
We're running a version 3 0 SPF process with number one router ideas 1.
A lot of other information shown here including the areas configured in this case it's area 1 and 2
interfaces have been put into that area.
The SPF algorithm has run once show IP vs 6 0 SPF interface instead of brief.
So here's the command.
And notice on the gigabit interface the link local addresses this.
It's a broadcast network type.
In other words a election will take place.
Route 1 is the designated router on this interface and it has this rudder I.D. which we configured manually.
Notice that timers hollow timer is 10 seconds dead interval is 40 seconds.
There is no backup designated rudder on this interface.
So once again show IP vs 6 0 SPF neighbor shows us that there are no neighbor relationships formed on
this network.
So let's configure the other routers and form neighbor relationships and exchange rates between the
rudders.